So we proved these two theorems last time and we used them for, and we had a couple applications
of them.
So the first theorem, simple theorem was that a sequence converges to x if and only if
the limit as n goes to infinity of the absolute value of x and minus x goes to 0.
And then we also had the squeeze theorem that if you have two, if you have three sequences,
a sub n, b sub n and x sub n so that x sub n is in between a sub n and b sub n.
And the a sub n and b sub n converge to the same thing.
Then the sequence x sub n converges and it converges to the common limit of a sub n and
b sub n.
So x sub n gets squeezed in between a sub n and b sub n.
And last time we used this to prove a kind of special limit that this equals 0.
If the absolute value of c is less than 1, so I had proved it for c positive and maybe
c less than 1, but the same proof works with absolute values just because the absolute
value of c to the n equals the absolute value of c raised to the nth power.
So let's use this to do a few more special limits if you like.
But first I'm going to state the binomial theorem.
I'm not going to prove it, but it's a simple exercise using induction.
And the binomial theorem says that we'll all end in natural numbers.
x, y and r, x plus y raised to the n is equal to the sum from k equals 0 to n of n choose
k, x to the n minus k, y to the k.
And here n choose k, this is equal to n factorial over k factorial divided by n minus times
n minus k factorial.
So again, you can prove this by inducting on n.
So we have a theorem, so we'll prove a few special limits.
I have a real number that's positive.
Then the limit as n goes to infinity of 1 over n to the p equals 0.
If p is positive, then limit as n goes to infinity of p to the 1 over n equals 1.
And the third is, it's just that a certain limit exists.
Limit as n goes to infinity of n to the 1 over n equals 1.
Let me make a small comment here.
So so far in our discussion of the real numbers, we've kind of only defined what it means to take a real number to an integer power.
But and in through.
So we have in powers and in roots.
So using that, we can then define how to take a real number to a rational power.
Although there needs to be something that's checked to make sure this is well defined because you can always write a rational number at, you know, not uniquely as one integer over another.
So we can define a positive real number to a rational power.
But, you know, using really only the elementary facts about the real numbers, the fact that it has a least upper bound property.
And the fact that the rationals are somehow dense in the real numbers, we can then define what it means to take a positive real number to a positive real number power.
Okay. All of that is just to say that to define a positive real number to a positive real number or to a real number power doesn't require the introduction of the exponential or logarithm.
Although they, in the end, to agree, they both agree once you do have the exponential and the logarithm.
So all of that is just to say that what we've done up to now, these things actually do make sense.
You don't need the exponential and the logarithm to make sense of a positive real number to a real number power.
Okay. But we're just going to use the basic properties of exponents throughout all this.
So we don't, I mean, we haven't even talked about continuity or derivatives or anything like that.
So we'll just use elementary means to be able to prove these statements.
Okay.
So for the first one, we'll prove this actually just using the definition of the limit, which remember means for every epsilon positive there, we should be able to find a capital number m such that if n is bigger than or equal to capital m, one over into the p is less than epsilon.
So, an epsilon to be positive, choose m a natural number such that m is greater than or equal to is greater than one over epsilon to the one over p.
Okay.
And if n is bigger than or equal to m, one over into the p minus zero, which equals one over into the p. This is less than or equal to one over capital m to the p.
So here, again, I'm using kind of an elementary fact that we all know is that if I have a positive power here, then, and little n is bigger than or equal to capital m than into the p would be bigger than or equal to m capital m to the p.
We do know that for integer exponents, but just trust me that one can define non-entered exponents and that inequality remains true as long as the power that you're using is positive.
So I have one over into the p is less than or equal to one over capital m to the p. And by our choice of capital m, this is less than epsilon.
Okay. So that proves number one.
So number two, we really only need to do kind of two cases. One is, you know, p. So p equals one is fine.
This is clear because then I just get one for the whole sequence. So that's one case. Now let me do p bigger than one.
Okay. And if p is bigger than one, the absolute value of p to the one over n minus one, this is just p to the one over n minus one.
And so I want to show that this quantity here goes to zero. Okay.
Okay. Then, so we have an inequality which we proved actually in the second lecture, I think, using induction, but you can actually get from binomial theorem as well is.
So let me just recall this right here that we had this inequality that if x is bigger than or equal to minus one, then one plus x.
So this is the case. Race to the n is bigger than or equal to one plus n x. Okay.
And so we use this inequality now with x equals p minus one. So p, this is equal to one plus p to the one over n minus one.
So now, raise to the nth power. I'm sorry, x is p to the one over n minus one, not p minus one. And now we use this inequality. This is bigger than or equal to this thing times n plus one.
So then I'll go over here. So now, subtracting the one and divided by n tells me that p to the one over n minus one is less than or equal to p minus one over n.
And as we noted here, since p is bigger than one, this is bigger than or equal to zero. Okay. And now we apply the squeeze theorem.
By squeeze theorem, this is just going to zero. p minus one divided by n. That's just the number over n. This goes to zero as n goes to infinity.
And in fact, that's contained in number one for p equals one. And also by our limit facts that we proved from last time that the limit respects algebraic operations of the real numbers.
So by the squeeze theorem, since this converges to zero and this converges to zero, this converges to zero, which implies that.
Okay. So that deals with the case. p is bigger than one. To deal with p less than one, we use the case p bigger than one. And again, the fact that limits respect algebraic operations.
And we write the limit as p. Let's look at p and make that better. The limit as n goes to infinity of p to the one over n. Now p is less than one.
So one over p is bigger than one. This is equal to the limit as n goes to infinity of one over one over p to the one over n.
And now one over p is bigger than one. Raise to the one over n power. Converges to one by the case we did before. And so one over this converges to one over one equals one.
Okay. Okay. So let me just remark that although we did prove this inequality for by induction, it actually follows from the binomial theorem.
And we'll use the binomial theorem to get a little bit of a different inequality that we'll use for number three.
So for number three, we want to prove limit as n goes to infinity of n over one over n equals one.
So rather than keep writing into the one over n minus one, which I want to show converges to zero now, I'm going to write xn. So let xn equal n to the one over n minus one, which we note is bigger than or equal to zero for all n.
Okay. And so my goal, I want to show, is limit as x as n goes to infinity of x sub n equals zero. All right. Because then that proves that this converges to zero. And since this is equal to its absolute value, that means that into the one over n converges to one.
And the way we're going to do that is using an inequality we get from the binomial theorem.
And, okay, so, and using kind of this trick here. Now, if we look at one plus x to the n raised to the n, this is just, let's just in.
Let me move it over a little bit. One plus x to the n raised to the n, x to the n, x of n is into the one over n minus one at one, I get into the one over n raised to n, I get n.
Now, by the binomial theorem, this is equal to sum from k equals zero to n, n choose k. And I have one raised to the n minus k power, x to the n raised to the k.
Now, this is a sum of non-negative things, because x sub n is always non-negative. And these coefficients are just quotients of factorial, so they're always non-negative as well.
So, this sum is always bigger than or equal to one term from the sum. So, it's bigger than or equal to k equals two, say, y to, you'll see x of n squared.
Now, n choose two, this is equal to n factorial over two factorial n minus two, factorial x to the n squared, x of n squared, which equals n times n minus one over two, x of n squared.
Now, I started off with n, and I proved it was bigger than or equal to this quantity here.
So, now I divide what's in front of the x sub n and take square roots. So, then that implies that we're all in bigger than one, because I need to divide by n minus one.
Zero, which is bigger than or equal to n, x sub n is less than or equal to two over n minus one, square root.
And now this is just zero, so it converges to zero. This right-hand side is square root of two over n minus one. Now, the limit as n goes to infinity of two over n minus one is zero.
So, square root of that also converges to zero. That's the fact we did from the end of last time, so this whole thing converges to zero.
So, by the squeeze theorem, limit as n goes to infinity of x sub n, which remember this is just into the one over n minus one, which implies.
Okay? That completes the proof.
All right, so now we are going to study a couple of objects related to a bounded sequence. So, why are we going to...
What's the underlying question we're going to try to answer? Whenever something's introduced, you should think of it in terms of what's the question that was asked that this is trying to answer.
So, we're now moving on to the topic of limpsoup and limmp of a sequence.
So, here's the question.
So, we've seen sequences that don't necessarily converge, like minus one to the n.
But, and we know about sub sequences now where you just kind of pick entries along the sequence.
You pick one, move to the right, and pick the next one.
Now, if you look at minus one to the n, if I just look at the sub sequence consisting of picking the odd entries, the odd numbered entries in the sequence, and I just get minus one, minus one, minus one, for my new sub sequence in this converges, it's just constant.
Or, if I chose the even ones I'd get one, one, one, one, one, one, and that converges.
So, this sequence, which is bounded, has a convergent sub sequence.
Now, not all sequences have convergent sub sequences. For example, if you look at the sequence x sub n equals n, so x sub n is just one, two, three, four, five, six, and so on, that will not have any convergent sub sequences.
Because any sub sequence of that has to be unbounded. That's pretty easy to show.
And we know that a convergent sequence is bounded.
So, what am I getting at?
So, the question that we're going to ask and try to answer is the following.
Does every bounded sequence have a convergent sub sequence?
And what I was just going on about right there is that we know this is true for, for example, for the sequence minus one to the n.
We also know this is true for a convergent sequence. Convergent sequences are bounded, so n they have convergent sub sequences.
Just take the sub sequence to be the whole sequence to begin with.
And we have to throw in this bounded part because there are sequences that don't have any convergent sub sequences.
Like I just said, x sub n equals n is an example of an unbounded sequence that doesn't have any convergent sequences, sub sequences.
So, the answer to this question, as we'll see, is yes.
And this is a very, really a very powerful statement. And this is due to bosono and wirestross.
And I'll restate it in a little bit when we get to the statement of that theorem, namely that every bounded sequence does have a convergent sub sequence.
There are several different ways to prove the theorem. We're going to prove it by introducing limb soup and limb imps because these are also two important objects that arise in analysis.
So, let's get to the definition of these guys.
So, let x and b bounded sequence and we define
if they exist, there's going to be certain limits. So, it's not clear that they exist at all to begin with.
But we'll show that they always do exist. We define limb soup, x sub n, and sometimes n goes to infinity underneath.
Sometimes I'll just write limb soup or I'll just have an n underneath it. This is supposed to be a number.
And this is equal to the limit as n goes to infinity of a new sequence obtained from the old sequence x sub n.
What are the entries of this new sequence? This is soup of x sub k, k bigger than or equal to n.
And the limb imp is similar except it's now with imps.
So, for each natural number n, I take the supremum of the set of elements x sub k for k bigger than or equal to n.
So, this is a bounded set because the sequence is bounded. So, this supremum is well defined, same thing for the imp.
So, I get a new number for each n.
And I take the limit of those numbers and I define one to be the limb soup, one to be the limb imp, if they exist.
Because, you know, limits don't always exist. So, it's not even clear that these two limits actually are meaningful.
And the first thing that we'll do is we'll prove that these limits do actually always exist.
So, rather than keep writing this, I'm going to give these write some symbols for these two things.
So, let a sub n to be...
So, of course, if I forget to say this, at least in what I'm talking about with respect to limb soup and limb imp, I'm always talking about a bounded sequence.
But let me continue to state that as one of my hypothesis.
Let x sub n be a bounded sequence.
And let a sub n be the supremeum of the set of all elements, x, okay, where k is bigger than or equal to n.
And b sub n to be the infimum of x, okay, k, bigger than or equal to n.
Okay.
So, then there's a couple of statements. One is...
That the sequence a sub n. So, remember, I take...
So, let me just put over here what these things have to do with the limb soup and limb imp.
Then you can...
Then the limb soup of x sub n, this is defined to be the limit as n goes to infinity of the a sub n's and the limb imp of x sub n.
So, we need to show what we're going to show is that the limit of a sub n as n goes to infinity of a sub n exists and the limit as n goes to infinity of b sub n exists.
So, how we're going to show that is...
We're going to show that a sub n is monotone decreasing and bounded.
And so, these are the conclusions.
So, I should say...
Then the sequence b sub n is monotone increasing and bounded.
So, in particular, since we know that if we have a monotone sequence which is bounded, it has to converge.
That means these two limits exist.
And then the second part of the theorem is kind of the simple statement that the limb imp of x sub n is less than or equal to the limb soup of x sub n.
Okay.
So, in fact, before I prove this theorem, let me prove a small simple kind of theorem first.
So, let's put the proof of this theorem on whole just for a second.
And now, I'll prove a very simple theorem that if a and b are subsets of real numbers, a, b, both not equal to the empty set, and a is a subset of b.
So, also need to be bounded.
So, if we take two non-empty subsets of real numbers, such that b are bounded.
And a is a subset of b.
And the conclusion is that the input b is less than or equal to the input a.
And this is always less than or equal to the soup of a.
And this is less than or equal to the soup of b.
So, what this says is that if I take a subset of b, then that increases the imp and decreases the soup.
So, the soup of a smaller set is smaller than the soup of the bigger set.
And that inequality reverses for imps.
The imp of the smaller set is bigger than or equal to the imp of the bigger set.
And this just follows immediately from the definition of soup and imps.
So, I'll just prove the soup statement.
So, since soup of b is an upper bound for b and a is a subset of b,
this implies that soup b is an upper bound for a.
Soup b sits above everything in b.
A is a subset of b.
So, it sits above everything for a.
Now, the supremum of a is supposed to be the least upper bound.
And therefore, if I take any upper bound for a, that has to be bigger than or equal to the soup of a.
So, since soup b is an upper bound for a, this implies that soup a is less than or equal to soup b.
And similarly, with the imps.
So, I'm not going to write.
So, similar for imps.
Okay, so let's go back to the proof of the theorem here that if I have a bounded sequence,
then the limb soup and the limb imp exist.
And we show that by proving that these two sequences have these monotonicity properties.
So, proof now of the theorem we were started off proving.
Okay.
So, since the set of xk's with k bigger than or equal to n plus 1 is a subset of xk's for k bigger than or equal to n.
Right, because now I have a set where k's starting at n plus 1.
Here's the set with k starting at n.
So, this is clearly contained in here.
This implies that a sub n plus 1, which is the soup of the left hand side,
by this little theorem that I stated here, is less than or equal to the soup of the bigger set.
And this is just a sub n.
So, we've proven for all n a sub n plus 1 is less than or equal to a sub n.
Okay. And therefore, this sequence is monotone decreasing.
Okay.
And so, this uses the soup part of this previous theorem.
But if we use the imp part, then we also get the statement for the b sub n.
So, rather than write out the details, I'll leave it to you just to flip around the inequalities for the imp in your notes.
So, similarly, we're all in a natural number.
B sub n is bigger than or equal to b sub n plus 1, or other way.
Okay. Now, so that shows these two sequences are monotone.
Now, we show they're bounded. This follows simply from the fact that the exavins are bounded.
Since there exists a b bigger than or equal to 0 such that all n, natural numbers,
exavin in absolute value is less than or equal to b, which is the same as saying b is,
exavin is bounded between minus b and capital B.
So, taken as elements of each of these sets, if you like, this ex of k, k, k,
bigger than or equal to n, that means minus b is always a lower bound for these sets.
And b is always an upper bound for these sets.
So, this implies that minus b is always less than or equal to ex of k, k, bigger than or equal to n.
And this always sits below the supremum.
And the supremum, since all of these are bounded above by b, the supremum has to be less than or equal to b.
Which I'll state in terms of the a sub n's and b sub n's means minus b is less than or equal to b sub n is less than or equal to b.
So, these sequences are bounded.
So, in fact, these two implies that.
So, we've shown that these two sequences that define, that we used to define the limb soup and the limb imp,
are monotone and bounded. So, therefore, the limit of these two sequences, the limits, which define the limb soup and limb imp, actually exists.
So, limb soup and limb imp is always a well-defined object.
Now, this proves one to prove two. This follows immediately from what we've proven right here.
So, by this part, we have b sub n is less than or equal to a sub n.
So, for all n, I have these two sequences, one sitting below the other.
And last time, we proved that taking the limit respects inequality.
So, the limit as n goes to infinity of b sub n, which is the limb imp sits below the limit as n goes to infinity of a sub n, which is the limb soup.
And that completes the proof.
So, I've shown that these two objects we define, the limb soup and the limb imp, exist and are well defined for every bounded sequence.
So, this is kind of, can be a little bit of a daunting.
A couple of objects to come across when you, especially in your first analysis class.
So, the best thing to do is look at examples. Whenever you come across something that you just don't quite understand, start writing down some actual things.
So, for example, let's, again, look at our favorite example of a bounded sequence, which does not converge.
X of n equals minus 1 to the n.
Okay? Then, if I am looking at this set, X of n, n bigger than or equal to k, writing a set of X of n.
Now, let me just write what it is minus 1 to the n. So, what is this set? This is just a set consisting of two elements, 1 and minus 1.
So, yeah. And therefore, the soup of this set, which is the soup of this set, is just 1.
Oops. So, if I take, which implies that the limp soup of minus 1 to the n, which is the limit as n goes to infinity of soup.
Minus 1 to the n, and bigger than or equal to the k. As we just saw, this is just a soup of this set consisting of two elements, 1 and minus 1.
This is equal to the limit as n goes to infinity of 1, equals 1. So, the limp soup of minus 1 to the n is 1.
Now, if I change all these soups to n, then the n of this set is going to be the n of this set, which is just minus 1.
And therefore, we also get, okay. So, the limp soup is 1. The limp is minus 1 for this set.
That's supposed to be a squiggly line, not necessarily looking like a sigma.
Okay. So, there's one sequence. Now, how about our next favorite sequence? X of n equals 1 over n.
So, the set of elements 1 over n such that n is bigger than or equal. So, 1 over k, I should write.
Oh, so I was using some, this should have been a k. I'm going to make that mistake throughout.
No, I kept writing X of k. So, that should be X of k.
Okay. All of that is written correctly. This should have been minus 1 to the k.
Okay. When it's 1 to the k. All right, very good. So, we're looking at now the set 1 over k, where n is bigger than or equal to n.
So, this is just the set 1 over n, 1 over n plus 1, 1 over n plus 2, 1 over n plus 3, and so on.
Okay. So, as I move to next, the next entry things are getting smaller and smaller. And, in fact, this sequence just here, now written as thinking of this as a new, so this is not a sequence, this is a set.
But, taking entries to be these guys, it's easy to see that that converges to zero. So, anyways, let's say I take the supremum of this set, which is what I need to compute the limb soup.
So, I'm now taking the supremum of this set, 1 over n plus 1, that's always smaller than 1 over n, and so is 1 over n plus 2, and so on and so on.
And, 1 over n is an element of the set that's bigger than or equal to everything else in the set, and I think there's an exercise in the homework that asks you to show that if you have a set that contains an element, which is an upper bound for the set, then that has to be the supremum.
So, the supremum of this set is simply 1 over n. Okay. So, this supremum is equal to 1 over n.
So, as n goes to infinity, the limit of this supremum here, which equals the limit as n goes to infinity of 1 over n equals 0.
Okay, so, the limb soup, 1 over n equals 0.
Okay. But now, let's say I look at imps of this set. So, I had to take soups to look at the limb soup. Now, let's say I take imps.
Okay. Now, the imp of this set, these are elements that are getting closer and closer and closer to 0. So, there's 0 over n, and then they just keep getting smaller and smaller and smaller and smaller, converging to 0.
So, and you can, in fact, prove this rigorously if you like, but I think it's easy to at least convince yourself that the infimum of this set is equal to 0.
Okay. The smallest thing. So, first off, 0 is a lower bound for this set. And if I take anything bigger than 0, that thing cannot be an upper bound simply because of,
if you like, the Archimedean property, I can always find something from the set less than that real positive, real number. So, 0 must be the least upper bound.
So, in summary, the limb imp of 1 over n, which is the imp, the limit as n goes to infinity of the imp of this set, is just the limit as n goes to infinity of 0, which equals 0.
So, the limb soup of 1 over n equals 0, the limb imp equals 0 as well.
Okay.
So, let's take a look at these two examples a little bit and let me just make a few remarks.
First off, what's to notice about this sequence is the fact that the limb soup is 1, limb imp is equal to minus 1.
So, the limb soup does not equal to the limb imp. However, in this example, the limb soup, which is 0, equals the limb imp, which is 0.
Now, what's the difference between these two sequences? What's the property that one holds, but the one has what the other doesn't? This is a convergent sequence, and this one is not.
So, and we'll see, this is a general fact that if we have a convergent sequence in the limb soup, in the limb imp, equal each other, and are equal to the limit of the original sequence, because this sequence converges to 0.
But that's not just the one-way street, it's a two-way street that in fact will prove if the limb soup equals the limb imp, then the original sequence converges.
Okay. So, the sequence converges if and only if the limb soup equals the limb imp.
And we saw here that kind of that in on display, that the limb soup and the limb imp don't equal each other, and the original sequence, which we know, or shown last time, doesn't converge.
Right? And so, one other thing I'd like to point out is that, so the limb soup of this guy is 1, the limb imp of this guy is a minus 1, and now we can also find a sub-sequence which converges to 1, which is the limb soup. Right?
We just take the entries that we choose to be the even numbered entries, and that just produces a sequence 1, and that sequence converges to 1.
If we take the odd entries of the sequence, that sub-sequence is just minus 1 and converges to minus 1, which is the limb imp.
And that's also a general fact we'll prove that for any bounded sequence, there exists sub-sequences converging to the limb soup, and the limb imp.
And that will give us the proof of this boson of wire straws theorem.
All right? And I think that's all of the remarks I want to say.
And let me make one other important comment.
So, this sequence, which we use to define the limb soup, and also the limb imp, in these, in three out of these four cases, they were actual sub-sequences.
So, the soup of this set equals 1, which I can consider as a sub-sequence of the original guy. Right? And the same thing for the limb imp.
The limb, the imp of this set, was minus 1, which I can consider as a sub-sequence of minus 1 to the n.
And for the soup of this set, I got 1 over n, which I can, this is just equal to the original sequence.
So, it's set, definitely, I can consider it as a sub-sequence of the original sequence.
But if I take the infimum of this set, which I need to define the limb imp, I got 0 for every imp.
So, I got 0 for every entry, which is not a sub-sequence of this original sequence.
So, all of that is to say that the sequences I get through this process to define the limb soup and limb imp are not necessarily sub-sequences of the original sequence.
So, that, what I just said a minute ago about there actually being sub-sequences, which do converge to the limb soup and limb imp.
This is a non-trivial fact, which we're going to prove.
Okay.
So, theorem, and this will give us a boson of airstross, essentially immediately right after it.
Let xn be a down the sequence.
Then there exists sub-sequences, xn sub k and xm sub k.
So, they don't necessarily have to be the same sub-sequence, such that limit as k goes to infinity of x sub n sub k equals the limb soup.
So, it's a convergent sub-sequence and the limit as k goes to infinity of xm sub k produces the limb imp.
Okay.
So, this immediately gives the boson of airstross theorem, which is that every bounded sequence
has a convergent sub-sequence.
Okay.
So, again, this follows immediately from the previous theorem, because if I take a bounded sequence, by the previous theorem I can find a sub-sequence, which converges to the limb soup, which always exists for a bounded sequence.
Okay. And then that's the statement. In fact, we have something stronger in that we have at least two sub-sequences, which converge to these two numbers, which may or may not be the same.
Okay.
So, powerful and so strong is that it to sort of get your hands on something, it doesn't require you to show something as strong as showing there is a sequence converging to that.
So, quite often, you know, you can think in terms of variational problems where you want to show that a minimum of something always exists or a maximum of something always exists.
Well, what you can try and do is, you know, take a sequence of guys that you stick into your, so this is a general nonsense, that you stick into your machine or function that spits out output, and these outputs are approaching the maximum or approaching the minimum.
And what you'd like to say is that there does in fact exist an element that you can stick into your machine and produce the maximum amount of output. Now, you know, maybe, you know, it's not clear how to do that.
So, first take a sequence approaching so that the values are approaching that the outputs are approaching the maximum. Maybe you could show that the inputs converge to something, but that's typically really hard.
But you don't have to work that hard is what the steering says, it says that what you really need to do and which is much more straightforward or simpler or possible really is to show that that sequence of inputs that you put into your machine to get the outputs is a bounded sequence.
Then you could pass to a subsequence, which actually does converge to something by this theorem and proceed in that way by showing that you do have some minimum or maximum some input that produces a maximum output or minimum output.
So, that's a bit, a small bit of rambling about why this theorem is so useful is that again, it's to get your hands on something that typically you want to study, it's very difficult to show convergence to that thing you want to study.
Or that that thing exists because there's a sequence that you come up with at hawk actually converges to that thing. But this theorem says you don't need to work that hard or try to do the impossible and typically it's much easier just to proceed by showing your sequence of inputs is bounded.
So, that's enough of that bit of rambling about why this theorem is so useful. It's also useful in the study of PDE which is what I study.
So, I have a sauce spot for it, actually one of its generalizations.
All right, so let's prove the theorem that there exists subsequences which converge to the limb super limb.
So, as before, I'm going to use rather than keep writing the supremum of this set and I'm not going to actually I'm not even going to do this statement.
I'm going to leave this as an exercise. I'm going to do this statement. I'm going to use this notation asabin as before.
Asabin be soup of x sub k's bigger than or equal to n. So, I want to show that there's something converging to the limit as n goes to infinity of the asabins.
So, what I'm going to do is I'm going to trap a subsequence of elements between asabin and asabin minus something which is converging to zero and not quite asabins.
It will be along a subsequence as well. So, we know that there exists an in sub one bigger than or equal to one.
Simply by how this is defined as a supremum and by the exercise from assignment three that there exists an in sub one bigger than or equal to one such that
asabin minus one is less than or equal to less than x sub one is less than or equal to asabin.
That's a sub one minus one is not an upper bound for the set asabin which is x sub k's for k's bigger than or equal to one.
Therefore, I should be able to find an element from this set strictly bigger than that and of course it's always less than or equal to the supremum which is asabin.
So, now since asabin sub one plus one so asabin sub one plus one not one plus one since this thing equals the supremum of x sub k such as k is bigger than or equal to n sub one plus one.
There exists an a sub in sub two at least there exists an in sub two bigger than in sub one in fact it has to be bigger than or equal to in sub one plus one such that asabin plus one minus half is less than a sub in sub two.
is less than or equal to a sub in plus one.
So, why the in sub one plus one is because I wanted to obtain a new entry from the sequence that comes from farther than the index in sub one.
I'm trying to build a sub sequence and like I said the idea is I want to somehow sandwich this should be x sub n.
I want to build up a sub sequence which is sandwiched between things converging to the limb soup and use the squeeze theorem.
Alright.
Okay so since this is the supremum of this set that and because this thing is not an upper bound for this set there exists something from this set so some element k bigger than or equal to in sub one plus one which I'm going to call in sub two.
So, that x sub in sub two is bigger than a sub in plus one and a sub in sub one plus one.
And then I just keep doing this since a sub two plus one equals the supremum of the x of k such that k is bigger than or equal to in sub two plus one.
So, there exists in sub three bigger than in sub two such that a sub in sub two plus one minus now a third is less than x sub in sub three is less than or equal to a sub in sub two plus one.
Okay.
But now we're essentially home free. We'll just continue in this manner.
So, let me write down.
Now strictly speaking I need to state the construction of this sequence as an inductive argument but the purposes of this class I'm not going to do that.
I'm just going to say continuing in this manner and that will be what I say for this part.
So, continuing in this manner we obtain a sequence of integers, natural numbers.
In sub one less than in sub two less than in sub three so on such that what holds such that for all k a natural number a sub in sub k
minus one plus one minus one over k is less than or equal to x in sub k less than or equal to a sub in sub k minus one plus one.
Okay. And here if you like we didn't define what in sub zero is.
So, really we're only interested in the ins of one in sub two.
So, but for the sake of this whole thing making sense for all integers k with ins of zero being defined to be zero.
Okay. That's just the first case that we dealt with.
So, we obtain this sub sequence x of n sub k that sandwiched in between this sub sequence of a's and minus one over k and this sub sequence of a's of n sub k minus one.
So, since ins of one is less than in sub two and so on this implies that in sub one is less than two plus one is less than three plus one.
So, this is a sub sequence a sub in sub k minus one plus one is a sub sequence of a's of n's.
Now, what do we know? We know the a's of n's converge to the limb soup. Right?
And we proved last time that every sub sequence of a convergent sequence converges to the same thing.
Thus, the limit as k goes to infinity of a's of n sub k minus one plus one equals the limit of the original sequence, which is by definition the limb soup.
Okay. So, now I have this sub sequence of x's sandwiched in between two sequences, this guy on the left, this guy on the right, this guy on the right converges to the limb soup, this guy on the left converges to the limb soup minus zero because one over k converges to zero.
So, by the squeeze theorem, we get that the limit as k goes to infinity of x of n sub k equals the limit as k goes to infinity of this and this whole thing, which is the limb soup.
Okay. And again, so I'll leave it to you to do the limb imp part.
But the point is that now, basically, this one over k gets moved over here and this becomes an a sub n sub k minus one plus one over k.
And now I just have this on sitting below this guy. All right. This is really the only change for the imps to get a sub sequence converging to the limb imp.
Okay. Now, we've shown that there exists a sub sequence converging to the limb soup and the limb imp, which gives us the boson of wire thrust down.
And now, let me come back to the statement I made about these two sequences here, namely that the limb soup equals the limb imp if and only if the original sequence converges.
So, let's prove that now.
Let x of n be bounded sequence.
Then x and converges. If and only if the limb soup is bounded, then the whole thing is bounded.
And then x equals the limb imp.
And there's one more part. Moreover, if x and converges, then all these limits agree equals the limb soup equals the limit.
Okay.
So, the sequence converges if and only if the limb soup equals the limb imp. And in that case that we do have this, this limit of the sequence is given by this common value of the limb soup and limb imp.
Okay. So, let's go in one direction.
To do this direction, we'll use a squeeze theorem. So, suppose l equals limb soup x of n equals the limb imp of x of n.
So, here we're assuming that these two things equal each other. They're given by a common value l. And what we're going to end up showing is that this sequence converges to l.
So, that actually gives the second part of the statement of the theorem here. So, suppose l is this common limb soup and limb imp.
And then for all in a natural number, we have that the imp of the x of k's, which is for k bigger than or equal to n.
So, x of n is in this set. So, it's certainly bigger than or equal to this imp and it's less than or equal to the soup of that set.
Again, because x of n sits in this set. But as n goes to infinity, this sequence of numbers converges to the limb imp, which is l.
So, by the squeeze theorem, the thing in between which is x of n converges to l.
So, for the second part, it follows from what we've proven, what we've proved to obtain the boson of yorstras. And what we know about convergent sequences and their subsequences.
So, this is where this direction, namely that convergence implies the limb soup equals the limb imp.
So, let l be the limit as n goes to infinity of x of n. So, now we're assuming that the sequence converges to something which we call l, then have to be the same l from it's not going to be.
So, it's just l I'm just using for this limit by previous theorem.
There exists a subsequence, x of n sub k such that the limit as k goes to infinity of x of n sub k gives me l' soup of x of n.
But this is a subsequence of a convergent sequence. And a subsequence of a convergent sequence is convergent and converges to the same thing.
So, this thing on the left is just equal to l.
Similarly, there exists a subsequence, x of n sub k such that the limit as k goes to infinity of x of n sub k equals l.
So, this is a subsequence of a convergent sequence. So, it's convergent and converges to the same thing l.
So, that implies that this thing is equal to l. And therefore, the limpsouple and the limpsouple and the limpsouple and they also equal the limit of the original sequence.
So, that is the end of the proof of this theorem that the limpsouple and limpsouple and limpsouple when they coincide and tell you that the original sequence converges.
So, that's another way of thinking about limpsouples and limps is that they also somehow measure just how divergent your sequence is.
Or at least the difference between them. If that difference is zero, then the original sequence is convergent.
Okay? All right. So, I think we'll stop there.